Part I Introduction
1.Ten principles of Economics
1)People always face tradeoffs(Efficiency vs Equity)
2)The cost of sth. is what you give up to get it.(Opportunity cost:the opportunity cost of an item is what you give up to get that item.)
3)Rational people think at the margin.(Rational people:people who systematically and purposefully do their best to achieve their objectives.
Marginal change:small ,incremental adjustments to an existing plan of action.)
4)People respond to incentives.
5)Trade can make everyone better off.
6)Market is a good way to organize the economic activity(Decentralized decisions,firms and households,goods and services)
7)Goverments can sometimes improve market outcomes.
8)The standard of living depends on a country's production.(productivity is the amount of goods and services produced from each hour of a 
worker's time.)
9)Prices rise when the goverment prints too much money.
10)Society faces short-run tradeoff between inflation and unemployment.

2.Thinking like an economist
1)a market model;
2)The slope of PPF captures the concept of opportunity cost.
3)two kinds of questions:positive questions and normative questions.

3.Interdependence and the gains from trade
1)absolute advantage and comparative advantage(comparative advantage is measured by opportunity cost)

exercises:
1)Microeconomics is often called (price theory).
2)A circular-flow diagram is a model that(incorporates all aspects of the real economy and 
helps to explain how participants in the economy interact with one another).
3)One way that governments can improve market outcomes is to ensure that individuals 
are able to own and exercise control over their scarce resources.(T)

Part II Supply and Demand:How markets work
1.Perfectly competitive market:All goods are same,and the sellers and buys are so numerous that they have negligible effect on price.
2.demand curve：quantity-price curve,how curve shifts when demand changes.
3.demand curve shifters:
1)income(rise):normal good(rise) and inferior good(fall)
2)prices of related goods(rise):substitues(demand rise,e.g.:Coke and pepsi),complements(demand falls,e.g.:gas and gas cars).
4.supply
1)input prices(rise):supply(fall);
2)expectations about future(rise):current supply(fall)
5.intersect of supply and demand curves is equilibrium;
6.market disequilibrium:surplus and shortage,in most markets,surplus and shortage are temporary
7.price ceiling(shortage) an price floor(surplus);
8.elasticity:how much one variable changes when another varialbe changes
9.price elasticity of demand:Ed = |(percentage change in Qd)/(Percentage change in P)|(use midpoint method)
10.determinants of Ed:
1)availability of close substitudes(rise):Ed(rise);
2)Necessities(inelastic),luxuries(elastic);
3)time horizon:more elastic over long time horizon.
11.total revenue = P*Q,price rise,demand is elastic,TR decreases;
12.linear demand curve elastic:low price and high quantity,inelastc;high price and low quantity, elastic;
13.income elasticity of demand:EM<0,inferior goods;0<EM<1,necessities;EM>1,luxuries;
14.cross price elasticity of demand:(Qd change in x)/(price change in y);Exy > 0,substitudes,Exy < 0,complements;

exercises:
1.A decrease in quantity demanded(results in a movement upward and to the left along a demand curve.)
2.If two goods are substitutes, their cross-price elasticity will be(positive.)
3.At the equilibrium price, the quantity that buyers want to buy exactly equals the quantity that sellers want to sell.(T)
4.The effects of rent control in the long run include lower rents and lower-quality housing.(T)
5.When demand is inelastic, a decrease in price increases total revenue.(F)

Part III Markets and Welfare
1.consumer surplus = value to buyers - amount paid by buyers;
(consumer surplus rises because existing consumers now pay less and new consumers enter the market.)
2.cost:a buyer must give up to produce the good;
3.producer surplus:amount received by sellers - cost to sellers;
4.total surplus = consumer and producer surplus=value to buyers - cost to sellers;
5.the market equilibrium maximizes the total surplus.

exercises:
1.Taxes cause deadweight losses because they(lead to losses in surplus for consumers and for producers that, when taken together, exceed tax revenue collected by the government.)
(distort incentives to both buyers and sellers.)(prevent buyers and sellers from realizing some of the gains from trade.)
2.Many economists believe that restrictions against ticket scalping result in each of the following except (shorter lines at cultural and sporting events.)
3.Economists generally believe that, although there may be advantages to society from ticket-scalping, the costs to society of this activity outweigh the benefits.(F)
4.政府无论是对消费者还是对收费者征税都会达到相同的影响；税收更多的由需求和供给弹性中更大的一方承担；

Part IV Public sector economics
1.externalities
negative externalities:smaller than market equilibrium quantity;
gov:internalizing the externalities
positive externalities:bigger than market equilibrium quantity;

2.public policies toward externalities:
1)gov:command-and-control policies and market-based policies.
2)EPA(Environmental Protect Agency):dictates maximum level of pollution.

3.private policies toward externalties:
1)why it do not always work?
high transaction cost,bargining simply breaks down,large number of interested parties.

4.diffrent kinds of goods
1)excludability:property of a good whereby a person can be prevented from using it.
2)rivalry:property of a good whereby one person's use will diminishes other people's use.
3)ER：privalte goods;NENR:public goods;RNE:common resources;ENR:club goods.

5.public goods and commohn resources
1)free rider problem
2)common resources:environment

exercises:
1)externality is (the uncompensated impact of one person's actions on the well-being of a bystander.)
2)Which of the following statements about a well-maintained yard best conveys the general nature of the externality?
-A well-maintained yard conveys a positive externality because it increases the value of adjacent properties in the neighborhood
3)When a transaction between a buyer and seller directly affects a third party, the effect is called an externality.(T)
4)Government intervention in the economy with the goal of promoting technology-producing industries is known as patent policy.(F)
5)A good that is excludable is one that someone can be prevented from using if she did not pay for it.(T)

Part V Firm behavior and the organization of industry
1.The costs of Production:
1)explicit cost and implicit costs:They are economic costs;
2)implicit cost:money,labor,production factors;
3)explicit cost + implicit cost = total opportunity cost;implicit cost = normal profit;normal profit + economic profit = accounting cost;
4)total product,average product,marginal product:
AP = (TP)/(Input labor)
5)边际要素收入等于编辑要素支出时利润最大；
6）total fixed cost:don't vary with the quantity of output produced,total variable costs are those change with the quantity of ouput produced
total cost = TFC + TVC
7)ATC = AFC + AVC;MC = (dTC)/(dQ);
8)MC<AFC or MC < AVC;AFC and AVC decrease;
9）short run:output based on scale;long run:scale based on ouput;standard:minimum of ATC;

2.firms in competitive markets
1)Profit = TR - TC;
2)TR = P*Q;AR = TR/Q;MR = dTR/dQ;MR = the price of the good.
3）The law of profit Maximaization:MC<MR,firm should increase output;MC>MR,firm should decrese output;MC=MR,profit-maximizing output;
4)the portion of MC curve that lies above the AVC curve is the firm's supply curve;
5)when a firm decides to shut down,fixed cost will be its sunk cost.
6)firm shuts down when TR<VC or P(MR)<AVC(in the short run)
7)firm exits when TR<TC or P < ATC and enter the market when TR>TC or P > ATC(in the long run)

3.monopoly
1)a monopoly is the sole seller of the product without close substitudes.
2)the barriers to enter:monopoly firm owns a key resource;gov gives them the exclusive right;
3)monopoly MR != P;when MR = MC ,monopoly can get its maximazing profit;
maximization:perfect competition:P = MR = MC;monopoly:P > MR > MC;
4)Deadweight loss:triangle between the demand curve and MC curve;
5)public policies towrd monopolies:increasing competition with antitrust laws;regulation;public ownership;
6)price discrimination:to sell the same good at different prices to diffrent coutomers according to their WTP;
  a.first degree price discrimination:different price at different customer,no deadweight loss;
  b.second degree price discrimination:quantity discounts;
  c.third degree of discrimination:group pricing;
  
4.monopolistic competition
1)characrastic of monopolistic competition:many sellers and buyers;free enter and exit;product differention;
2)Profit-maximizing or loss-minimizing point:MR = MC;

5.oligopoly
1)characrastic:a few sellers sell in the market;identical or differentiated goods;strategic interdepence(game theory to analyze).

exercises:
1)A profit-maximizing firm in a competitive market will increase production when average revenue exceeds marginal cost.(T)
2)Because a firm's demand for a factor of production is derived from its decision to supply a good in the market, it is called a
(derived demand.)
3)The basic tools of supply and demand apply to (both markets for goods and services and markets for labor services)
4)In the long run, monopolistically competitive firms produce where demand equals marginal cost.(F)
5)A profit-maximizing competitive firm will hire workers up to the point at which the wage equals the marginal product of labor
(F)
6)The term Luddite refers to “tekkies” or people who are the first to adopt new technological advances.(F)
7)The market for wheat is most likely considered a monopolistically competitive market.(F)

part VI the economics of labor markets
1.demand of factors:The demand for a factor of production is called derived demand
2.value of the marginal product:VMPL = MPL * P
3.Gini coefficient = S/triangleABC(<0.3:equality,0.3<G<0.4:normal,0.4<G<0.6:alert line,>0.6:in danger)

exercise:
1)A profit-maximizing, competitive firm for which the marginal product of labor is diminishing also experiences(a downward-sloping demand for labor.)
2)Value of marginal product is defined as the additional(revenue earned from hiring one more factor of production.)
3)Capital income does not include income paid to households for the use of their capital(F)
4)The marginal product of land depends on the quantity of land that is available(T)

Part VII
1.budget constraint:
2.indifference curve:high indifference curve are preffered to low one;downward sloping;don't cross;bow inward;
3.optimum:where indiffrence curve and budget constrain touch;marginal rate substitudes = relative price;


